ROB DODSON: Hey, everybody.
What's up?
It's Rob Dodson here, from
the Google Developer Relations
team.
And in this series we're
going to be covering
the basics of using
Polymer's core-icon elements.
In lesson 1, we'll
look at how you
can use core-icon to get your
very first image up on screen.
And in lesson 2,
we'll look at how
you can load in a custom
icon set of your own making.
But let's start
with Lesson 1, how
to get your very first
icon up on screen.
So just about every
website is going
to need to use
icons at some point.
So you know, looking
at the Polymer site,
we've got the Search icon here.
We've got a few
buttons with icons.
We've even got some
of these arrows
down here that include it.
And so, what we're
going to do today is,
we're going to look at how you
can use the core-icon element
to get a single
icon up on screen,
maybe something like a letter.
And how you could use maybe
the core-icon elements
set to load in a
default set of icons.
That'll make it
just a lot faster
for you to get some icons
displaying on screen.
So, starting us off,
let's first look at how
we can get a core-icon
up on screen.
So here, I'm assuming
it's in bower_components.
And I've just imported
its definition.
And once I drop my
core-icon on the page,
I can give it a source attribute
and point to some image file
that I've got saved somewhere.
So here I'm loading
this Android icon.
But I could refer to just about
any image format that I want.
It doesn't have to
necessarily be SVG.
It could be like a png, a gif,
webp-- something like that.
But typically we prefer, and
we recommend, that you use SVG.
Primarily because
it's a vector format.
Which means, it's not going
to lose any quality as you're
scaling the image up
or scaling it down.
Now, you might look
at this and think,
it's not really a
significant improvement
over using something
like the image tag.
We've still got to refer to
some source attribute, that's
some file that we've
got saved on disk.
And that doesn't really
save us that much time.
So to make things
easier on us, we
can actually include a
default icon set and pull
our icons from there.
So let's take a look at that.
So here I'm including
core-icons, instead of
just the core-icon element.
Note the s here.
This is plural.
And what that's
doing is, it's going
to still load in the
definition for core-icon,
but it's also going to
pull in a default icon set.
So now you can just say,
hey, I want an icon.
I want it to be an Android icon.
And it's going to load that
from my default icon set.
There's a bunch of
icons in the set.
So I could throw
in a Cloud icon.
I could throw in a Polymer icon.
In fact, if you want to take a
look at the full suite of icons
that are in the default set,
you can follow this link
right here.
That'll take you to this page.
There's tons of
great stuff that you
can look at and throw into
your site or application.
All right.
Now we've got something
showing up on screen.
The next thing we
have got to do is
we've got to give it some
size and we've got to style.
So, I'm going to just
apply some CSS classes here
to change the size of my icon.
And that's so I can
override the CSS that
gives the icon its default
sizing of 24 pixels.
So this icon, smaller
class, for instance,
has a width and
height of 20 pixels.
That's going to give me this guy
down here, who's much smaller.
Likewise, using icon-larger,
width and height 90 pixels
gives me a much larger icon.
And now to style this
thing, it's super simple.
We're just going
to give it a color,
using the color property in CSS.
Set it equal to this
bright green value.
And we'll get this guy
over here on the right.
So that about covers the basics
of getting our core-icon up
on screen.
Let's switch over to
our Code Editor now,
and we can actually
see if we can
get this to display
in our browser.
All right, so the first
thing we needed to do
is we need to make sure
we're loading the platform.
So we're going to pull
in bower_components
/platforms/platform.js.
That's going to give us access
to all of the web component
technologies, so we can start
using things like HTML imports.
So then we're just going
to write out an import.
And we're going to pull in
that core-icons definition.
So we're going to say
core-icons-- core-icons.html.
Note reason core-icons--
the plural one here.
Because that's going to give us
access to the default icon set.
And it's also going to load in
the definition for core-icon
for us.
So then we can just
write out a core-icon tag
and give it an icon attribute.
And we'll point it
at that Android icon
that we've been using so far.
Save this.
And go to our browser,
and refresh the page.
And up there in the
top left corner,
we've got a little bitty icon.
So the next thing
I want to do is,
I want to give this icon a size.
So I'm going to start to
write out a style tag.
And I've got to
remember, I've got
to add a class to
my icon elements.
I'm going to go down there.
And we'll give it a
class of icon-larger .
So our CSS has
greater specificity.
So we're going to use
that icon-larger class.
And we'll set the width
and height to 200 pixels.
It's kind of a big icon.
But that way, everyone
on the video can see it.
So go back and refresh the page.
And we've got this
much bigger icon.
Now if you go and check out
the Polymer documentation
for the core-icon
element, you can actually
scroll down the page.
And you'll see that
there is a link down here
at the bottom, which will point
to the core-icons element set.
So you can actually
browse through all
of the icons that are
available in this default set.
So scrolling around, I can see
that there's this cool Cloud
icon.
And if I want, I can
just copy its name.
Go back to my Code Editor, paste
that into my icon attribute.
Then when I refresh
the page, I've
got this cooler Cloud
icon that I can work with.
And going back, if I want, maybe
I can grab this Drive icon.
Drop that into my icon
attribute, refresh the page,
and I've got the Drive logo.
Sweet.
But I want to stick
with that Android icon,
because we've been working
with it for a bit now.
So I'm going to put
Android back in there.
And the last thing I want to do
is I want to give it a color.
So over my CSS, I'm just
going to use a color property.
And I'm going to set it to this
cool bright green hex value.
So save that, go back
and refresh the page.
And I've got this bright
green Android icon.
So that about covers
the basics of using
the core-icon elements.
In the next video,
we're going to look
at how you can load in
additional icon sets,
including icon sets that
you create yourself.
Thanks for watching.